The ns-3 code generator
===========================

The ns-3 code generator project aims to provide a quick and easy way to automatically generate valid ns-3 C++
simulation scripts. It incorporates the CodeSynthesis XSD product to validate and generate the XML to C++ data
bindings to allow for easier parsing of the XML file used to define a network topology.  The code generator can
be invoked stand alone from the command line, or integrated into a larger system that requires ns-3 code
generation capability.

1) Build / install
------------------

You need the CodeSynthesis XSD library to compile and use ns-3 code generator.  XSD utilizes
the Xerces XML parser, so that needs to be installed also.

To build the project:
Make sure a valid XML instance specification (XML Schema) file is colocated with the Makefile.
An example would be;

TopologySchema.xsd
  XML Schema which describes a network topology.

Then simply issue:

 $ make 

Issuing the make command will generate the following files;

TopologySchema.hxx
TopologySchema.ixx
TopologySchema.cxx
  C++ types that represent the given vocabulary, a set of parsing
  functions that convert XML documents to a tree-like in-memory object
  model, and a set of serialization functions that convert the object
  model back to XML. These are generated by XSD from TopologySchema.xsd.

Other files;

ns-3-codegenerator.cxx
  Is the main program for the project. It first calls one of the parsing functions
  that constructs the object model from the input file. It then makes the API
  calls to generate the ns-3 compliant code.

2) Execute
--------------

Make sure the XML Schema file (TopologySchema.xsd) is colocated with the code
generator executable.

Then simply issue:

 $ ./ns-3-codegenerator *filename.xml* *output_filename*

The *filename.xml* contains a high level description of a network topology.  The
provided output filename contains the ns-3 C++ statements that can be executed in
ns-3 environment.

To generate the XML class documentation (you need doxygen tool):

$ make docs

The HTML generated documentation is located in the same directory.

License
------------------

  Copyright (c) 2016 Idaho National Laboratory
  
  Copyright (c) 2009 University of Strasbourg
  
  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
 
  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
  GNU General Public License for more details.
 
  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
  Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
